.NET CMS Comparison Overview:  Umbraco, Orchard, MojoPortal, and Kooboo  (by Steve Hentschel)

12/01/2014
Background:  For my second pet project, I wanted to build a more complex website (endofthislife.org), and I 
figured it would be better for future maintainability to use a Content Management System.
My target is to use Visual Studio 2013, MVC5, Razor, MSSQL 2012/Express all in the .NET 4.5 framework.
Basic functionality required would be blog/forum and some media support for user galleries.

In this blurb (I know blog would be better, but until I make one ...) I will just go over some of my
initial findings via Google research on the four packages I chose to evaluate.

Platform
Umbraco and MojoPortal are based on WebForms, whereas Kooboo and Orchard were written with MVC.  
I would prefer to use an MVC-based CMS, but in the end it doesn't matter so much as they all 
support MVC-based web applications.

Usage
According to w3techs.com, Umbraco is the most popular CMS of the four, followed by Orchard.  MojoPortal
is third in usage (pretty close to Orchard), and then Kooboo brings up the rear.

Pricing
All four CMS options are free open source software.  Orchard and Kooboo have no hidden fees, whereas
Umbraco and MojoPortal have some higher end features that are paid options. Umbraco also charges EU 20
per month for viewing of their tutorial videos (umbraco.tv) and offers different levels of paid support.

Company/Website Impressions
Umbraco is based in Denmark with a team of 9 employees and has a very nice/modern website.
Orchard Project doesn't seem to be based physically anywhere, but due to it's association with MicroSoft, 
I'd put it in Redmond, Washington with a team of 6-10 international development/board members.  The
Orchard website is simple, but clean, functional and looks nice.
MojoPortal appears to be a one man show with Joe Audette running things from North Carolina.  Of the 
four choices, the MP site looks the most dated and cluttered with advertisements, but you can't
begrudge a guy for trying to make a living.
Kooboo also has a very simple, but clean and functional (like Orchard).  Kooboo was developed in Xiamen, 
China by a team of 6-8, but they also have satellite offices in Los Angeles and the Netherlands.

Community/Support
Umbraco has the most active support forum with tons of recent posts and contributors (our.umbraco.org).
Umbraco also has an active release history and a good future roadmap.
Orchard also has an active/current forum with many contributors; also a good release history and roadmap.
MojoPortal community is ok, but not quite as active as Umbraco and Orchard.  Activity seems to have 
subsided around 2012 and the development seems stuck at .NET 4.0.
Kooboo community support seems similar to MP with not so many current postings.  Kooboo seems mostly 
tailored to supporting multilingual websites.

That's it for the initial light research.  Next, I will install each CMS and create a quick test site
and report the results in separate blurbs.  After that I will update this thread with my final choice(s).

--slh
